2.5.2 System Safety Technical Plan (SSTP)
2.5.2.1 The SSTP is designed to be a technical planning guide for the technical
performance and management of the system safety activities. The SSTP can be a
stand-alone document, or part of the SMA plan or the Systems Engineering Management
Plan (SEMP). It provides the specifics of the system safety modeling activities and
describes what and how safety adverse consequences will be modeled, how system
safety models (qualitative and probabilistic risk assessments) will be integrated and
applied for risk-informed decision making and safety monitoring, how the technical
team(s) responsible for generating and maintaining system safety models will interact
with the system engineering organizations, the reporting protocol, and the cost and
schedule associated with accomplishing system safety modeling activities in relation to
the critical or key events during all phases of the life cycle.
2.5.2.2 Project managers shall:
a. Ensure, for Category I project/programs, that the SSTP is approved by the governing
Program Management Council (PMC) and has concurrence by the cognizant SMA
managers and the project's senior engineer.
b. Ensure that the System Safety Manager and the prime contractor (for out-of-house
projects) have the resources to implement the SSTP.
c. Ensure, for Category I project/programs, that changes to the SSTP are approved by the
governing PMC and have concurrence by the Chief, Safety and Mission Assurance.
d. When the SSTP is not an integral part of the SEMP, ensure the SSTP is coordinated
with the SEMP for the integration of system safety activities with other system
engineering technical processes.
2.5.2.3 The Center SMA Director shall:
a. In coordination with the program/project manager, assign a System Safety Manager to
have specific responsibility for the development and implementation of the SSTP.
b. Ensure that the assigned System Safety Manager has demonstrated expertise in safety
analysis including, in the case of Category I and II projects, the application of
probabilistic risk assessment techniques.
c. Ensure that all personnel with project safety oversight responsibilities are funded by
other than direct project funding sources.
2.5.2.4 The assigned System Safety Manager shall:
a. Develop a SSTP during the project formulation phase and update the plan throughout
the system life cycle.
b. Ensure that the scope of system safety technical processes in the SSTP follows the
graded approach specified in Tables 2.1 and 2.2.
c. Ensure that the SSTP provides the specifics of the system safety modeling activities
and their application to risk-informed decision making and safety monitoring throughout
the project life cycle.
NPR 8715.3D -- Chapter2
This document does not bind the public, except as authorized by law or as
incorporated into a contract. This document is uncontrolled when printed. Check
the NASA Online Directives Information System (NODIS) Library to verify that
this is the correct version before use: https://nodis3.gsfc.nasa.gov.
Page 23 of 47
NPR 8715.3D -- Chapter2
Page 23 of 47

d. In consultation with the project managers, establish and document in the SSTP the
objectives and scope of the system safety tasks and define applicable safety deliverables
and performance measures.
e. Provide technical direction and manage implementation of system safety activities as
specified in the SSTP.
f. Ensure that system safety engineering activities are integrated into system engineering
technical processes.
g. Determine the acceptability of residual risk stemming from safety assessments.
h. Ensure that specific safety requirements are integrated into overall programmatic
requirements and are reflected in applicable program and planning documents including
the statement of work for contractor designs.
i. Maintain appropriate safety participation in the program design, tests, operations,
failures and mishaps, and contractor system safety activities at a level consistent with
mishap potential for the life of the program.
j. Establish an independent safety reporting channel to keep the Center SMA Director
apprised of the system safety status (including tests and operations), particularly
regarding problem areas that may require assistance from the Center, the NASA
Engineering and Safety Center, or Headquarters.
k. Support OSMA requirements for audits, assessments, and reviews.
