document_id: niosh_nmam_surface_sampling_guidance
source_family: CDC_NIOSH
title: NIOSH NMAM Surface Sampling Guidance Considerations and Methods in Occupational Hygiene
direct_url: https://www.cdc.gov/niosh/nmam/pdf/NMAM_Chap_SG-508.pdf
sha256: 49e1d057bb989c8d1bc812960c47327bde6baf55672da2e68ca9080bf3595cf3
chars: 118363
selected_for_gold: false
held_out_for: dsc_lambda_calibration_and_poc

            NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods (NMAM), 5th Edition



Surface Sampling Guidance,
Considerations, and Methods in
Occupational Hygiene
by Kendra Broadwater MPH, CIH, CSP, NIOSH; Kevin Ashley, PhD, NIOSH (ret.); and Ronnee Andrews
PhD, NIOSH




      1   Introduction                                                                      SG-2
      2   Rationale for surface sampling                                                    SG-2
      3   Collection methods                                                                SG-6
      4   Sampling strategies                                                              SG-18
      5   Criteria for surface contamination                                               SG-23
      6   Consensus standards and other resources for published surface sampling methods   SG-24
      7   Bulk sample collection                                                           SG-29
      8   Summary                                                                          SG-29
      9   References                                                                       SG-30


      DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
      Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
      National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health
                      Surface Sampling Guidance, Considerations, and Methods in Occupational Hygiene



1 Introduction
Work surfaces can become contaminated with chemical, biological, or radiological agents in
different circumstances: during typical and emergency work activities, after accidental or
intentional agent release and dispersal, or during naturally occurring processes. Skin (dermal)
contact with contaminated surfaces has been recognized as an occupational exposure route
resulting in dermal absorption and/or accidental ingestion [Boeniger 2003; Cherrie et al. 2006; EPA
1995b, 2008; Ness 1994]. Surfaces can be sampled to assess these exposures or the potential for
them. In fact, surface sampling followed with analysis is now widely used to evaluate contamination
levels in workplaces [ASTM 2011b]. The data collected from surface and dermal sampling can be
used when designing and evaluating mitigation and prevention strategies and can complement
workplace air monitoring and other types of exposure assessments.

Analytes of interest can often be sampled and analyzed using more than one method [Ashley et al.
2011; Lichtenwalner 1992; McArthur 1992; Ness 1994]. Consistency in sampling and analyzing
surface agents in occupational settings can be achieved by standardizing methods. Standardization
allows for reliable and high-quality comparisons of analytical results from samples collected across
different investigators, locations or surfaces, times, and sampling methods. Because sample
collection is usually responsible for the greatest measurement uncertainty in sampling and analysis,
developing and using standardized sampling methods should be a priority. Some standardized
methods for surface sampling have already been developed, validated, and published. However, for
substances that do not have such methods, careful planning, consideration, and documentation of
the sampling strategies and methods used is necessary for high data quality and reliability.

This chapter provides information that will (1) aid in the selection of collection methods (e.g.,
surface sampling medium, wetting agent, and sampling technique), sample locations, and number
of samples; and (2) describe available resources for these decisions (e.g., standardized methods,
consensus standards, and regulations and their accompanying guidance).

While we focus on surface and dermal sample collection and analyses here, other evaluation
techniques, such as using direct reading instruments (e.g., X-ray fluorescence, chemical spot tests),
also apply.


2 Rationale for surface sampling
Surface sampling data can provide important information about surface contamination, or lack
thereof, in workplaces. Understanding and defining the purpose for collecting surface samples


         NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods  5th Edition  Chapter SG      August 2022       Page SG-2 of SG-42
                      Surface Sampling Guidance, Considerations, and Methods in Occupational Hygiene



before making a decision to take the samples or creating a sampling strategy are critical. The
purposes and objectives for the surface sampling dictate several aspects of the sampling plan, such
as the collection method, location, sample number, and analytical method. Primary objectives
should include that the surface sampling data collected be defensible and meet the preestablished
goals.

The sampling strategy, which includes number, location, and method, will define how the data can
be used. Therefore, these should be decided and thoroughly documented before sampling begins.
Make sure the sample collection and analysis methods will meet the data quality objectives and
performance requirements for the selected goals. Other concerns are the potential location and
temporal variability in surface contamination. The change in contamination levels over time, or
temporal variability, is related (1) to when and how the contaminating process happens and (2) to
exposure controls such as containment or cleaning. These impact whether the collected samples
accurately represent the contamination and partially dictate where samples should be taken (e.g.,
select locations likely to be highly contaminated). Collecting enough samples and using sampling
areas of adequate size are required for defensible and useful data that meet the sampling strategy
objectives.

Some purposes for surface sampling in occupational settings are outlined in ASTM D7659-21
Standard Guide for Strategies for Surface Sampling of Metals and Metalloids for Worker Protection
and summarized here [2021b]:

  •   Hazard identification – To identify and quantify analyte(s) of interest in the workplace. This
      information is used to evaluate risk, to develop and recommend worker protection
      requirements, and to assess the probability of adverse health effects.
  •   Source and exposure pathway identification – To determine the process or origin that
      contribute to the presence of the analyte(s) of interest, the fraction of emission coming from
      each source, and how workers may be exposed during these processes. Exposure pathway
      identification may also look at if contaminants migrate into workers’ vehicles or homes
      [NIOSH 1995].
  •   Exposure assessment – To measure or evaluate potential exposure when a health hazard is
      known or suspected to be present. Assessment may be conducted for similar exposure groups
      (workers in the same location or in the same role with similar exposure potential). Select,
      whenever possible, instrumentation and methods that offer the lowest available analytical
      reporting limits for the analyte that is undergoing assessment. The reporting limit should be
      below any regulatory limit for a particular agent or level that can lead to adverse health
      outcomes, if that level is known.



         NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods  5th Edition  Chapter SG      August 2022       Page SG-3 of SG-42
                      Surface Sampling Guidance, Considerations, and Methods in Occupational Hygiene



  •   Site characterization – To find the surface contamination levels within a facility at an initial
      or baseline point, during or after process or engineering controls operations, or as part of
      facility decommissioning.
  •   Selection of exposure controls – To determine which exposure controls (engineering,
      administrative, personal protective equipment) should be used and how efficient collection or
      capture control devices need to be to reduce or eliminate deposition or to remove material
      that has already been deposited.
  •   Evaluation of controls, including housekeeping – To measure the efficiency of exposure
      controls, amount of the analyte(s) of interest passing or escaping from an exposure control,
      and to help identify the reason (e.g., poor design, leaks, wear, damage, inadequate
      maintenance, overloading, or accidents). Surface sampling before and after housekeeping or
      decontamination can be used evaluate the cleaning methods or materials.
  •   Compliance with regulations and standards – To satisfy regulatory or legal requirements and
      determine if exposures and/or contaminant surface concentrations in the workplace are
      below regulatory or guidance limits.
  •   Education and training – To educate workers and managers in the importance of the
      hierarchy of controls, which includes elimination and substitution, engineering controls, and
      administrative (e.g., training, policy and procedures, housekeeping, and good work practices)
      controls and personal protective equipment.
  •   Complaint or concern investigation – To look into concerns of workers, management,
      regulatory agencies, or other interested parties.

Results from surface sampling and analysis should not be used to the exclusion of other information
concerning potential chemical, radiological, and biological hazards; rather, surface sampling data
should be used to augment data from other sources of contamination or exposure. For instance,
additional sources of exposure information may include occupational air sampling, bioassay and
biomonitoring results, clinical observations, quality and process control data, records of facility
operations, visual inspections, and material balance studies. Different types of samples can be paired
together to increase sampling strategy efficiency. For example, direct reading qualitative and semi-
quantitative colorimetric methods using wipes, or swabs and a reagent such as those for lead (Pb)
(NIOSH 9105) and hexavalent chromium [Cr(VI)] (NIOSH 9101) can be used alone. However, they
can also be used for on-site screening, to discern where surface samples for subsequent quantitative
analysis should be collected. Direct reading screening methods exist for methamphetamine and
fentanyl on surfaces and can be carried out using colorimetry and/or immunochemical assay
techniques [Angelini et al. 2019; Snawder et al. 2011]. These techniques (Table 1) can be used to
complement surface wipe measurement methods for methamphetamines.




         NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods  5th Edition  Chapter SG      August 2022       Page SG-4 of SG-42
                      Surface Sampling Guidance, Considerations, and Methods in Occupational Hygiene



Consider these technical factors and variables when sampling a surface for any contaminant
[adapted from Connor et al. 2016]:

Location and sample surface(s) considerations:
   • Design and layout of area to be sampled
   • Locations that are to be sampled relative to process and work
   • Nature of surface to be sampled (e.g., surface texture, loading, shape)
   • Surface size(s) and area(s) to sample
   • Chemicals in use at site(s) that could be present
   • Loading/contamination level: trace, highly contaminated, variability across surface, etc.


Sampling process considerations:
   • Type and material of sampler to be used
   • Validated sampling and analytical methods used
   • Recovery efficiency from surface with given sampling method (typically unknown, unless
      trials are conducted or efficiencies have been published)
   • Wetting agent to maximize recovery efficiency
   • Exposure controls for investigators conducting sampling

Analytical considerations:
   • Number of samples to be taken
   • Presence and identification of possible interferences
   • Chemistry (e.g., polarity, pH) of extraction solvent
   • Dynamic range of analytical method: accuracy at low, medium, and high levels of analyte
   • Extraction efficiency from surface sampling media
   • Compatibility of extraction solution with analytical reagents
   • Properties of the analytes
   • Stability of analyte in extraction solvent/sampling medium or media
   • Limits of detection and quantitation for analyte

One should also consider the history of the surface being sampled, for instance, the time and
duration of its last use, any contaminating process, and the time and method of its last cleaning. The
analyte’s possible origins should also be considered and documented beforehand. This information
can be used to determine the timing and technique for sampling the surface, relative to any
contaminating processes and housekeeping activities. It can be helpful to understand this history
during data interpretation.



         NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods  5th Edition  Chapter SG      August 2022       Page SG-5 of SG-42
                               Surface Sampling Guidance, Considerations, and Methods in Occupational Hygiene



Table 1. NIOSH methods for sample collection from surfaces in workplaces and related
environments*
 Method No. Sampling               Target Analyte(s)     Comments
              Media/Substrate

 NIOSH 9100          Wetted wipe               Pb                            Harmonized with ASTM E1728; subsequent
                                                                             analysis by atomic spectrometry or
                                                                             electroanalysis

 NIOSH 9101          Settled dust sample       Cr(VI)                        Qualitative colorimetric screening method
                                                                             using diphenylcarbazide


 NIOSH 9102          Wetted wipe               Elements                      Harmonized with ASTM D6966; subsequent
                                                                             analysis by atomic spectrometry

 NIOSH 9105          Wetted wipe               Pb                            Qualitative colorimetric screening method
                                                                             using rhodizonate

 NIOSH 9106          Solvent-wetted wipe       Methamphetamine               Harmonized with ASTM D6661; liquid-
                                               and related drugs and         liquid extraction sample preparation
                                               compounds                     followed by gas chromatography-mass
                                                                             spectrometric analysis

 NIOSH 9109          Solvent-wetted wipe       Methamphetamine               Harmonized with ASTM D6661; solid-phase
                                               and related drugs and         extraction sample preparation followed by
                                               compounds                     gas chromatography-mass spectrometric
                                                                             analysis

 NIOSH 9110          Wetted wipe               Be                            Harmonized with ASTM D7202; subsequent
                                                                             analysis by molecular fluorescence

 NIOSH 9111          Solvent-wetted wipe       Methamphetamine               Harmonized with ASTM D6661; desorption
                                                                             using sulfuric acid followed by liquid
                                                                             chromatography-mass spectrometric
                                                                             analysis

*Methods available at www.cdc.gov/niosh/nmam. Pb = lead; Be = beryllium; Cr(VI) = hexavalent chromium



    3 Collection methods
     Sample collection methods include the sample medium and technique appropriate for use based on
     the physical nature of surface to be sampled. The following materials, qualities, or conditions are

                 NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods  5th Edition  Chapter SG             August 2022   Page SG-6 of SG-42
                      Surface Sampling Guidance, Considerations, and Methods in Occupational Hygiene



examples of what to consider to better understand representative surfaces, contamination types and
amount, and sample media that are of interest for surface (including dermal) sampling [Ashley et al.
2011]:
       • Physical nature of surfaces
          o      Hard or soft
          o      Smooth or rough
          o      Porous or nonporous
          o      Fragile or durable substrates
       • Cleanliness of surfaces
          o      Oily or coated surfaces
          o      Grossly contaminated surfaces
       • Skin (exposed and/or protected)
       • Clothing and personal protective equipment
       • Bulk materials, for example, soils, deposited dusts, spilled materials

Available sample media can be made from a variety of materials (e.g., polyvinyl alcohol, quartz
fiber, mixed cellulose ester, polycarbonate membrane, cellulose sponge, continuous filament cloth,
macrofoam sponge, polyurethane foam) and come in several formats, such as dry or wetted wipes,
swabs, and filters. When vacuum sampling, a container or a filter is needed. Sampling can also be
done using rinses, typically for dermal sampling, or adhesive tapes. Collecting multiple analytes can
require distinct media or sample preparation for each analyte or class of analyte and, thus, need
multiple, nonoverlapping surface samples.

 a. Collection efficiency
     Understanding measurement accuracy, variability, and sample collection efficiency is
     fundamental when collecting surface samples. Collection efficiency is the amount of analyte
     collected and measured from a surface material divided by the total amount deposited on the
     area sampled. It is reported as a percentage, so the result is multiplied by 100. Together,
     sample medium, wetting agent, and collection technique will affect collection efficiency and
     the analytical/quantitative results. Collection efficiency can also be affected by the degree to
     which a contaminant is physically or chemically bound to the surface being sampled.

     Collection efficiency differs from sampler extraction efficiency. Sampler extraction efficiency
     is the fraction of total analyte recovered from the sampling media and measured during
     analysis. It is determined using analyte deposited directly on the sampling media. Collection
     efficiency can be characterized through experiments prior to sampling. When available,
     characterization can be found through literature reviews about the target analyte, sampling


         NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods  5th Edition  Chapter SG      August 2022       Page SG-7 of SG-42
                  Surface Sampling Guidance, Considerations, and Methods in Occupational Hygiene



  surface characteristics (e.g., porosity, material) and sampling data, and sampling method.
  OSHA describes one method of characterizing collection efficiency that entails sampling a
  smooth and nonporous surface deposited with a known amount of analyte [OSHA 2000].
  OSHA suggests that a collection efficiency of below 50% for a method on an ideal surface
  would be insufficient and an alternative wetting agent or sampling medium should then be
  evaluated [OSHA 2000]. ASTM established a minimum of 75% collection efficiency for wipe
  sampling materials for Pb and beryllium (Be) in surface dust [ASTM 2020, 2021c].

  The collection efficiency for a specific collection method can be impacted by surface
  conditions as well as the manner the contaminant deposited on the surface (e.g., settling,
  impaction, static forces). Ideally, sampling collection efficiencies should be characterized using
  the same physical form as the material present on workplace surfaces. For example, when
  conducting collection efficiency experiments, analytes of interest may need to be deposited on
  a surface in a manner similar to workplace conditions rather than using a liquid spike of the
  analyte. Collection efficiencies are included in some published surface sampling methods or in
  research cited in the method [ASTM 2017a,b, 2018a,b, 2020, 2021c; Dufay and Archuleta
  2006; EPA 1995b; ISO 2011; Millson et al. 1994; NIOSH 2003, 2011a,b; Roberts et al. 1991;
  Wheeler and Stancliffe 1998]. The collection efficiency depends on several factors, such as the
  collection method, surface type, and surface condition (e.g., cleanliness, temperatures, skin).
  Collection efficiencies from surfaces for the agent and sampling method should be evaluated
  and documented, along with results, absent previously reported research or methods for the
  employed collection method (sampling media, wetting agent, sampling technique) and surface
  type.

  Sequential or serial sampling—taking and analyzing multiple samples of a templated area or
  hands—can be an option to increase collection from a surface, particularly if the amount of
  contaminant (or debris) on the surface is high. However, limited research evaluating or
  characterizing serial sampling is available. Some work has evaluated recovery from dermal
  surfaces using multiple wipes [Beaucham et al. 2019; Boeniger 2006]. Thus far, this practice
  has not been included in many standard and reference surface sampling methods, while others
  (e.g., NIOSH 9106, NIOSH 9212, ASTM D6661-17) allow its use with appropriate
  documentation and/or for specific purposes, such as estimating residual contamination at
  regular sampling [ASTM 2017b; NIOSH 2011a].

b. Sampling with wet or dry media
  Wetting sampling media often improves collection efficiency and should be considered and
  evaluated for appropriateness [Ashley et al. 2009]. Wipes can be wetted with a variety of



     NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods  5th Edition  Chapter SG      August 2022       Page SG-8 of SG-42
                Surface Sampling Guidance, Considerations, and Methods in Occupational Hygiene



liquids (e.g., deionized/distilled water, ascorbic acid, phosphate buffers, alcohols, or organic
solvents). Sampling methods for elements (metals and metalloids) normally entail the use of
wipes wetted with water, whereas surface wipe sampling for methamphetamine and related
compounds uses wipes dosed with solvents such as methanol or isopropanol (2-propanol).
While wetting agents may be chosen to increase the absorptive capacity of the media for a
particular media relative to dry media, their desorptive properties (i.e., the ability to remove
the agent from the media for analysis) vary [Venables and Schmuttenmaer 2000]. Review
available literature and method documentation before selecting sampling media and deciding
whether it will be used wet or dry, and with which wetting agent.

A hierarchy of sample collection methods is generally referred to when choosing surface
sampling media for metals [ASTM 2021b]. First, consider wetted wipe sampling, particularly
if collecting material from smooth, hard, nonporous, and nonelectrified substrates. As an
example, wipe sampling has been shown to be an effective means for assessing aerosol
deposition in occupational settings [Nygren 2006]. Sometimes wetted wipe sampling may not
be desirable, and dry sample collection techniques are required. For example, when surface
materials or components must be protected against potential damage from the wetting agents
or when the wetting agents may cause the contaminant to migrate into a porous or complex
surfaces (e.g., wood, concrete, carpet). In these situations, less aggressive methods (such as
nondrying or noncorrosive) or methods more compatible with the substrate being sampled
are sometimes called for. These can include mild vacuuming, tape lifting, rinsing methods, or
the use of dry swabs. For example, museum artifacts preserved using mercury or arsenic
should be sampled with methods that preserve the surface’s integrity [Makos 2001; Sirois
2001].

When sampling surfaces quantitatively as a surrogate for possible exposure, the sample
collection method should not degrade the sample surface in a way that contributes to an
inaccurate overestimation of analyte available on the surface. For samples that undergo
microscopy, dry collection methods such as tape lifting would often be appropriate. Select
dermal surface sampling methods (i.e., medium, wetting agent, and technique) that minimize
irritation, damage, and other health effects and prevent the contaminant or wetting agent
from migrating across the dermal barrier [ASTM 2011b; ISO 2011; Ness 1994]. For example,
to sample polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) on skin, one might use corn or sunflower
oil rather than hexane [Fent et al. 2014; Fent et al. 2017; OSHA 2000; Väänänen et al. 2005].

Collection efficiencies using wetted wipes for collecting lead oxide dust from smooth, hard
surfaces, have been evaluated and exceed 75% [Chavalitnitikul and Levin 1984; EPA 1995b].
In related work, a comparison of wet vs. dry sampling was performed on hard, smooth


   NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods  5th Edition  Chapter SG      August 2022       Page SG-9 of SG-42
                Surface Sampling Guidance, Considerations, and Methods in Occupational Hygiene



surfaces spiked with Be [Dufay and Archuleta 2006]. They found that wetted wipe sampling
usually results in a much higher collection efficiency (64%–106%) than does sample collection
using dry wipes (14%–43%). In earlier studies, a comparison of wipe sampling methods for Be
was carried out wherein dry, water-wetted, and alcohol-based wipe methods were evaluated
for how effective each was in removing beryllium-containing dust from painted surfaces [Kerr
2004]. The study found alcohol to be most effective for removing Be dust from oily surfaces,
while dry wipes were least effective for this purpose. These studies have served to provide
necessary data in support of standardized wipe sampling protocols for metals (e.g., ASTM
D6966).

Wetted wipes have been studied for assessing antibiotics and antineoplastic drugs surface
contamination. Using cellulosic wipes wetted with ethanol, recoveries of various antibiotic
substances from different surface materials were analyzed with high-performance liquid
chromatography-mass spectrometry (HPLC-MS) [Nygren and Lindahl 2011]. Sampling
recoveries from smooth surfaces were determined acceptable (i.e., quantitative or semi-
quantitative) for several antibiotics, but the high reactivity of certain agents led to low or
erratic recoveries for some substances.

Surface sampling studies of pesticide residues showed wetted wipes offered the highest
recovery efficiencies. A comparison study between solvent-moistened wipes and a press
sampler found solvent-wetted wipe sampling from hard surfaces removed 84%–97% of all
pesticides while a press sampler recovered only 17%–55% [Bernard et al. 2008]. A press
sampler consists of a handle, sampling block, and cassette assembly that uses springs to press a
sampling material, cotton or polyurethane in this study, against the surface being sampled.

Studies of wipe materials and wetting agents for collecting pesticide residues from hard
surfaces have shown that isopropanol-wetted cellulosic wipes yielded acceptable recoveries for
a variety of pesticides and their residues, as well as related organic compounds [Cettier et al.
2015; Deziel et al. 2011]. In other work, wipe materials and solvents were evaluated for surface
sampling of chemical warfare agents and for wipe recoveries from representative surfaces
[Willison 2012, 2015]. These wipe sampling protocols are harmonized with a relevant
voluntary consensus standard for sampling nonvolatile organic compounds, ASTM D6661
(Table 2).




  NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods  5th Edition  Chapter SG      August 2022       Page SG-10 of SG-42
                              Surface Sampling Guidance, Considerations, and Methods in Occupational Hygiene



Table 2. Selected ASTM standards for sample collection from surfaces in workplaces and related
environments*
 ASTM Standard           Sampling         Target Substrate(s)               Comments
   Designation        Media/Device              Sampled
 ASTM D5438              Modified upright            Floors                       Applicable to sampling from carpets;
                         vacuum cleaner                                           multiple analytes
 ASTM D5755              Micro-vacuum sampler        General surfaces             Applicable to collection of asbestos fibers
 ASTM D6333              Polyurethane foam roller    Floors                       Applicable to collection of pesticide
                                                                                  residues
 ASTM D6480              Low-fiber/continuous        Smooth surfaces              Applicable to collection of asbestos fibers
                         filament wipe
 ASTM D6602              Cotton balls, wipes or      General surfaces             Applicable to sampling of soot, carbon
                         tape lift                                                black, biofilms, etc.
 ASTM D6661              Solvent-wetted wipe         Smooth surfaces              Applicable to sampling of non-volatile
                                                                                  organic compounds
 ASTM D6966              Wetted wipe                 Smooth surfaces              Various wetting agents can be used;
                                                                                  applicable to metals and metalloids
 ASTM D7144              Sampling cassette with      Rough, porous, uneven        “Micro-vacuum” dust sampling for
                         collection nozzle           surfaces; fragile surfaces   metals and metalloids; potentially
                                                                                  applicable to other agents
 ASTM D7296              Dry wipe                    Fragile surfaces             Applicable to Be—special cases;
                                                                                  potentially extendable to other analytes
 ASTM D7707              Be wipe specification       Smooth surfaces              Applicable to Be sampling; potential
                                                                                  applicability to other elements;
                                                                                  regulatory applications
 ASTM D7789              Swab sampler (sterile)      General surfaces             Applicable to sampling of fungi
 ASTM D7910              Adhesive tape               General surfaces             Applicable to sampling of fungi
 ASTM E1216              Adhesive tape               Smooth surfaces              Applicable to multiple analytes; poor
                                                                                  collection efficiency for ultrafine
                                                                                  particles; might damage fragile substrates
 ASTM E1728              Wetted wipe                 Smooth surfaces              Applicable to Pb sampling; regulatory
                                                                                  applications
 ASTM E1792              Pb wipe specification       Smooth surfaces              Applicable to Pb sampling; potential
                                                                                  applicability to other elements;
                                                                                  regulatory applications
 ASTM E2458              Swab sampler                General surfaces             Applicable to suspected biological agents
                                                                                  in powders
*Standards available at www.astm.org. Pb = lead; Be = beryllium


       c. Vacuum sampling
            Consider vacuum sampling when the surface cannot be wiped, when surface wipe methods are
            not expected to have acceptable collection efficiencies, or when the analyte or the physical


              NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods  5th Edition  Chapter SG           August 2022       Page SG-11 of SG-42
                Surface Sampling Guidance, Considerations, and Methods in Occupational Hygiene



form is best collected via vacuum. Vacuum sampling is generally preferred for soft or rough,
porous surfaces and has been done for a variety of agents, including bacterial spores. Vacuum-
based sampling methods have been evaluated for their ability to recover Bacillus spores from
surfaces [Calfee et al. 2013; Calfee et al. 2019]. Relative and absolute recoveries of a Bacillus
anthracis surrogate for four commonly used vacuum sampling devices from three
representative surface types (carpet, concrete, and upholstery) were measured after dosing the
surfaces with aerosolized spores. Generally, higher relative recoveries were obtained by using a
micro-vacuum sampling filtration method, which is harmonized with a consensus standard
technique (ASTM D7144; Table 2). These and similar data can be used to support the
validation of standardized vacuum sampling techniques [Creek et al. 2006] for microbiological
samples.

The ASTM International high-volume vacuum collection method for worn carpeted surfaces
(ASTM D5438; Table 2) has been evaluated using reference material. Dust collection
efficiencies of about 80% and greater were reported for various types of carpets, and recoveries
were higher from new carpets [Svendsen et al. 2006]. Previous investigations of vacuum
collection systems reported low collection efficiencies of dust on carpets (<75%) and effective
collection (>75%) on smooth, hard surfaces [EPA 1995b]. A study evaluated a low-air volume
“micro-vacuum” collection method developed by ASTM International (ASTM D7144; Table
2) [Ashley et al. 2007]. Here, collection efficiencies from a variety of representative substrates
were reported based on gravimetric analysis. Although recoveries were generally lower
(<75%), researchers emphasized that standardizing the micro-vacuum sampling technique
should ensure data comparison through harmonization of the sampling device and collection
procedure. However, losses were reported because significant amounts of material were
captured within the collection nozzles of the micro-vacuum samplers. Improving the design of
vacuum samplers, where the collection inlet is incorporated into the body of the samplers,
may improve collection efficiencies in the future [Creek et al. 2006]. While removing the
material from within the collection nozzles may be possible, in practice this is difficult to
achieve.

In air sampling, researchers have identified material losses to the sampling cassette’s walls.
Guidance has been developed to recover those losses, such as using conductive cassettes,
improving the cassette design, using cassette inserts, or wiping or washing the inside of the
cassette [ASTM 2021a; NIOSH 2016a]. Similar corrective measures can be considered to
minimize cassette and collection nozzle losses during vacuum surface sampling.




  NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods  5th Edition  Chapter SG      August 2022       Page SG-12 of SG-42
                  Surface Sampling Guidance, Considerations, and Methods in Occupational Hygiene



d. Dermal sampling
  Dermal sampling, including removal and interception techniques, can be one component of a
  dermal exposure assessment [Boeniger et al. 2015; Semple and Cherrie 2003]. Hundreds of
  chemicals have been identified to have risks for significant dermal exposures (i.e., transdermal
  absorption, systemic toxicity, or allergic sensitization). However, the importance of dermal
  exposures has been often overlooked or underestimated relative to inhalational exposures
  largely because of the lack of dermal exposure criteria [ACGIH 2021; NIOSH 2010]. An
  extensive bibliography on occupational dermal health effects has been compiled [NIOSH
  2009]. This document serves as a general resource for information on occupational dermal
  exposures and health effects.

  Numerous studies have proposed what to consider for occupational dermal exposure
  assessments [Fenske 1993; Frasch et al. 2014; Schneider et al. 1999]. In view of this, the
  International Organization for Standardization (ISO) published a standard technical report
  (ISO/RD 14294:2011) outlining criteria for the assessment of occupational dermal exposure
  [ISO 2011]. This international standard complements the dermal sampling methods listed in
  Table 3. In general, there are four main objectives for assessing dermal exposure [Fenske
  1993]:
       1. Research on the adverse health effects of chemical exposures to include (a)
           conducting epidemiological investigations and risk assessments, (b) studying possible
           associations between skin exposure and adverse health effects, (c) developing
           exposure-response relationships for risk assessment, and (d) estimating disease
           burden due to skin exposures.
       2. Evaluation of exposure processes and pathways to assist in developing, implementing,
           and evaluating exposure control measures or interventions.
       3. Compliance, compensation claims, forensics, or litigation (if applicable).
       4. Education and training, including intervention protocols that might include the use
           of screening techniques to aid in workers’ understanding of their (and, potentially,
           their household members’) exposure pathways.




    NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods  5th Edition  Chapter SG      August 2022       Page SG-13 of SG-42
                           Surface Sampling Guidance, Considerations, and Methods in Occupational Hygiene



Table 3. Standardized guidance and procedures for sample collection from dermal surfaces
 Method(s)                Sampling                Target Analyte(s)       Comments
                          Media/Procedure

 ASTM D7822                  Wetted wipe                   Elements on delineated        Subsequent analysis by
                                                           area of skin                  atomic spectrometry or
                                                                                         equivalent technique(s)

 ISO/TR 14294                Wipes, patch samples,         Multiple analytes on          Guidance on sampling
                             dermal rinses, gloves,        dermal or interception        strategies and specific
                             clothing, etc.                surfaces                      dermal exposure
                                                                                         assessment protocols

 NIOSH* 3600, 3601,          Patch samples, hand           Multiple analytes on          Applicable to pesticides,
 9200, 9201, 9202, 9205      rinses                        dermal surfaces               metalworking fluids, etc.;
                                                                                         may apply to other agents

 NIOSH* 9100, 9102, 9110     Wetted wipe                   Elements on delineated        Harmonized with ASTM
                                                           area of skin                  D7822; subsequent
                                                                                         quantitative analysis

 NIOSH* 9101, 9105           Wipe: nonwetted               Cr(VI) or Pb on dermal        Qualitative colorimetric
                             (Cr(VI)); prewetted (Pb)      surfaces                      screening techniques

 OSHA (various) [OSHA        Patch samples, hand           Multiple analytes on          Various sampling and
 2003b]                      rinses                        dermal surfaces               analytical protocols; also
                                                                                         clothing, gloves, etc.

*NIOSH methods available at www.cdc.gov/niosh/nmam. Pb = lead; Cr(VI)= hexavalent chromium


          Conceptual models of dermal exposure have been outlined based on the body of relevant
          scientific literature [Boeniger et al. 2015; Fenske 1993]. Specific models include
          RISKOFDERM, DeRmal Exposure Assessment Methodology, the American Industrial
          Hygiene Association (AIHA) conceptual model for dermal exposure assessment, and the
          ECETOC Targeted Risk Assessment model [Boeniger et al. 2015; ECETOC 2004, 2009, 2010;
          van Wendel de Joode et al. 2005]. Other exposure models, such as the EPA ChemSTEER and
          Consumer Exposure Models, have dermal components [EPA 2013, 2019]. The models can
          form the bases for choosing measurement methods for assessing dermal exposures and
          pathways. Dermal exposure assessment is often carried out through direct sampling from skin
          via wipe sampling, tape stripping, rinsing techniques, or direct reading (in situ) measurement
          methods [Frasch et al. 2014; Schneider et al. 1999]. Indirect dermal exposure assessment



             NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods  5th Edition  Chapter SG        August 2022     Page SG-14 of SG-42
                Surface Sampling Guidance, Considerations, and Methods in Occupational Hygiene



methods include interception methods such as patch sampling and sampling of clothing or
gloves [Fenske 1993; Frasch et al. 2014; ISO 2011; Schneider et al. 1999].

Characterizing dermal exposure via sampling, particularly of volatile compounds, can entail
skin tape sampling and interception sampling. Skin taping removes a thin layer of skin cells
for subsequent analysis. Interception sampling techniques include the application of sorptive
samplers on the skin or clothing that are worn during work and then removed for analysis
[OSHA 2014]. Volatile and semivolatile compounds may not completely remain on the skin to
be sampled using removal sampling techniques, leading to an underestimate of exposure if the
volatile fraction is not accounted for. Residence time on the skin can impact collection
efficiency [ASTM 2019]. Conversely, sampling methods or media that capture volatile
fractions that never made contact with the skin can lead to overestimation of exposure.

Many of the considerations for carrying out dermal sampling mirror those outlined earlier for
collecting nondermal surface samples. When planning hand or skin wipe sampling, consider
the source of the analyte. For agents found both inside and outside the occupational
environment, such as flame retardants, preshift hand washing can reduce the risk of
attributing non-occupational contamination to the workplace, and preshift dermal sampling
can reveal the amount of contamination present before the participant enters the workplace.

Standardized methods that pertain to dermal sample collection and analysis are summarized
in Table 3. Applications to the sampling and analysis of metals and organics are exemplified in
a number of these protocols. Techniques for dermal wipe sampling for subsequent elemental
analysis are published in ASTM D7822 [ASTM 2019]. Dermal sampling protocol using patch
samples or rinses has been described briefly in several OSHA and NIOSH methods (Table 3).
Many dermal sampling techniques need to be further standardized, particularly for organic
analytes (such as pharmaceuticals) and reactive species (such as isocyanates) [ASTM 2011b].

NIOSH researchers studied the effectiveness of dermal wipe sampling for Pb using different
wipe sample media [Boeniger 2006]. More than half of the leaded dust (≈60%) was recovered
after collecting a sample with one wipe; successive wiping increased lead dust removal (≈90%)
from hands. In related research, effective decontamination of Pb on workers’ hands using a
specially formulated handwipe was shown to perform better than ordinary soap and
commercial skin cleansers [Esswein et al. 2011; NIOSH 1996]. Such techniques can also be
useful to decontaminate Pb and other metals in workplace environments. To date, apart from
exceptions shown in Table 3, dermal sampling procedures have not been well standardized.
This has led to difficulties in evaluating and comparing data from a variety of different studies
[Brouwer et al. 2000; ISO 2011].


  NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods  5th Edition  Chapter SG      August 2022       Page SG-15 of SG-42
                  Surface Sampling Guidance, Considerations, and Methods in Occupational Hygiene



  Data collected by dermal sample techniques are often confounded by multiple factors. These
  can include the reactivity of the agent(s) of concern, the ability of the analyte to pass through
  the skin, the variability of contaminant levels between different areas of the body, and
  variances in skin surfaces [Fenske 1993; Schneider et al. 1999]. Nevertheless, dermal sampling
  methods for chemicals (e.g., pesticides, metalworking fluids) and biological agents (e.g.,
  bacteria, viruses) should be harmonized to the extent possible. This task remains an important
  area for further research and development.

  Under Section 4 of the Toxic Substances and Control Act of 2016 (TSCA), the EPA can
  require chemical manufacturers and importers to develop and submit information on existing
  chemicals for subsequent risk evaluation. Test orders can require dermal wipe sampling to
  complement other exposure and skin permeation testing, but do not proscribe the sampling
  method [EPA 2021a].

e. Sampling area and technique
  Sampling techniques are often standardized by the sample area, sampling pattern, and the
  number of passes across a fixed sample area. Normally, the minimum area for sample
  collection is 100 square centimeters (cm2), which is about 16 square inches (in2). This is
  typically delineated using templates of standard sample areas (i.e., 100 cm2, 4 in2, 1 ft2). Using a
  template and a specified sample area are particularly important to compare samples or to
  follow regulatory or consensus limits, such as Be, Pb, and polychlorinated biphenyls
  (PCBs)[10 CFR § 850, 1999; 40 CFR § 761, 1978].

  To prevent cross contamination between samples, use a new, disposable template for each
  sample. Although it is not best practice, reusable templates may be used and cleaned between
  samples, unless disallowed by the published method being followed. To the same end, gloves
  should be worn and changed between samples, particularly when the sampling media is
  handled during sampling [OSHA 2000]. For samples where a handle is attached to the media
  (e.g., swab sample) and where the tip is broken into a sample container for storage before
  analysis, gloves aren’t essential to prevent cross-contamination. Most NIOSH surface
  sampling methods are harmonized with related ASTM standards (Table 2).

  Methods may call for the surface area to be sampled/wiped in a “Z or S” pattern in two or
  three complete passes with the media being folded between passes to prevent analyte loss back
  to the surface and to use the entire medium collection surface. Swab techniques might call for
  turning the swab during sampling. The passes on a surface within a template are typically in
  different directions (i.e., one sampling pass being perpendicular to the subsequent pass). For



    NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods  5th Edition  Chapter SG      August 2022       Page SG-16 of SG-42
                  Surface Sampling Guidance, Considerations, and Methods in Occupational Hygiene



  example, NIOSH sampling methods for Bacillus anthracis spores from smooth, nonporous
  surfaces instruct the sample collector to take multiple passes and use the full surface area of
  the sample media [NIOSH 2012]. NIOSH developed two methods: one using a cellulose
  sponge and a 100 in2 template, the other using a macrofoam swab and a 4 in2 template. Both
  techniques use a buffer that inactivates halogen disinfectants and quaternary ammonium
  compounds and require a specific sampling pattern. Each was meant for a particular type of
  surface, distinct from each other. NIOSH researchers created videos to demonstrate and train
  sampling staff [NIOSH 2015].

f. Other sampling considerations
  Details should be decided upon during the planning process. For example, sample storage and
  transportation needs should be accounted for. Samples may have to be refrigerated to
  maintain analyte stability while awaiting analysis. Any possible analytical interferences present
  at the site should be reported to the analytical laboratory. Samples for a reactive or unstable
  compound may need to be treated with a stabilizing or derivatizing agent immediately after
  sampling [OSHA 2000]. Some sampling materials, like the wetting agent or analyte, may have
  shipping label and safety regulatory requirements.

  Additionally, a job hazard analysis should be done for the sampling process to determine
  which exposure controls are needed during surface sample collection. For example, sample
  collectors should use gloves to prevent skin absorption of hexane-wetted gauze during surface
  wipe sampling for PCBs. The sample collector’s exposures should be characterized and not
  exceed occupational exposure limits or safety limits (e.g., recommended exposure limits
  [RELs], permissible exposure limits [PELs], threshold limit values [TLVs®], concentrations
  immediately dangerous to life or health [IDLH]). Such exposures could be related to the
  operations in the workplace undergoing assessment or to sampling (e.g., volatile solvent
  wetting agents). Sample collectors should be trained on the selected sampling technique and
  exposure controls that should be used to protect the sample collector. Generally, at minimum,
  gloves should be worn during the entire sample collection process to prevent both exposure to
  possibly hazardous agents and external contamination of the sample or surface being sampled.




    NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods  5th Edition  Chapter SG      August 2022       Page SG-17 of SG-42
                   Surface Sampling Guidance, Considerations, and Methods in Occupational Hygiene



4 Sampling strategies
 a. Number and statistical considerations in selecting a
    sampling approach
   Developing a sampling strategy requires careful selection of sampling location and number to
   meet sampling goals. Two primary sampling strategy categories when it comes to sample
   location and number are judgement sampling and random sampling. Traditionally, selection
   of sample locations and numbers has relied on targeted judgement. In targeted judgement
   sampling (also called professional judgement, best engineering judgement, or targeted
   sampling), information about the process and history of the workplace is used to choose
   sample locations. Typically, work surfaces employees have contact with and that are
   determined to most likely be contaminated or to have the highest contamination are selected
   for sampling. Targeted judgement sampling commonly includes surfaces that may pose the
   greatest risk of exposure for workers. These surfaces can be used for initial site
   characterization to identify the extent of contamination and locations for cleaning and re-
   sampling. However, because the selected surfaces are not random, the results of this type of
   sampling are intrinsically biased. Therefore, statistical conclusions cannot be made as to how
   much amount analyte is on unsampled surfaces. Targeted judgement sampling is useful in
   emergent situations and for screening ahead of random sampling. Additionally, the success of
   this strategy to identify contaminated areas relies on the accuracy of the judgments being
   made about the contaminating process. The accuracy of professional judgement to identify
   areas of high surface contamination has not been systematically assessed in peer-reviewed
   literature, but professional judgement of air sampling concentrations has been shown to
   improve with experience, education, and trainings [Logan et al. 2011].

   The number of samples collected should be determined by the purpose of the sampling, need
   and ability to collect representative samples, and statistical considerations. If it is determined
   that as a single sample is unlikely to be representative of the range of surface contamination
   levels, taking multiple samples on a single surfaces may need to be investigated. Surface
   sampling is limited to the amount of surface area available, potentially constraining the
   number of surface samples that can be taken. The precision of surface contamination
   estimates increases with the number of samples collected. The accuracy of the sampling may
   or may not increase with the number of samples collected. Some published consensus
   methods state that sample numbers should be sufficient to perform desired statistical
   comparisons [ASTM 2018c, 2021b].




     NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods  5th Edition  Chapter SG      August 2022       Page SG-18 of SG-42
                Surface Sampling Guidance, Considerations, and Methods in Occupational Hygiene



When planning, it is essential to consider how certain measurements would impact how the
results are used. For example, values for censored data (results below a specified reporting
limit) need to be agreed upon before sampling and may increase the number of samples
needed to perform statistical comparisons. Be regulations call for sufficient sampling to meet a
minimum confidence level [DOE 1999]. For some surfaces, the surface area will dictate the
number of samples that can be collected. The Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL)
has developed a software tool, Visual Sample Plan (https://www.pnnl.gov/projects/visual-
sample-plan), that can assist in decisions about the number of samples needed to meet given
sampling objectives.

1.) Statistical sampling approaches
    In cases where statistical confidence is needed as to the cleanliness or contamination of
    both sampled and unsampled surfaces in a building or workplace, random sampling
    strategies can provide information to make statistics-based statements about
    contamination or cleanliness. Random sampling is also called probabilistic sampling.
    Purely random sampling strategies may be very costly and time-intensive to fully
    characterize surface contamination and to meet precision objectives without the benefit
    of targeted or professional judgement.

    Hybrid approaches combining random sampling and targeted judgement strategies [EPA
    2021c, d; Sego et al. 2007; Seiler et al. 1987] can increase efficiency by using professional
    judgement in the design and reducing sampling cost and time. Targeted judgement and
    random techniques can be performed in sequence to increase efficiency. Hybrid
    approaches include stratified random sampling and some ranked set sampling [EPA
    2021c]. The EPA outlines goals, sampling scenarios, and associated appropriate
    environmental sampling strategies that can be applied to surface sampling [EPA 2021c]:
    • Judgmental sampling: where sample locations are selected using professional
       judgement and prior information and fewer samples are taken relative to random or
       hybrid techniques.
    • Simple random sampling: sampling locations are selected randomly (via random
       number generator or equivalent).
    • Stratified random sampling: location and/or process information is used to create
       groups that are independently and randomly sampled.
    • Systematic and grid sampling: an initial sampling point is selected randomly and
       then subsequent sampling locations are chosen using a fixed pattern (e.g., temporal,
       distance, geometric pattern).




  NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods  5th Edition  Chapter SG      August 2022       Page SG-19 of SG-42
               Surface Sampling Guidance, Considerations, and Methods in Occupational Hygiene



   •   Ranked set sampling: screening sampling is conducted on a random sample,
       locations and grouped according to relative contamination, and then subsequent
       samples are taken from those groups.
   •   Adaptive cluster sampling: random sampling is followed by adjacent sampling near
       the original sample if the results are of interest, such as above a laboratory reporting
       limit or predetermined threshold.

2.) Selecting sampling locations
   Before developing a sampling strategy, information about the sampling site and processes
   must be gathered. The following should be considered and documented within any type
   of sampling strategy, and can be used to select sampling locations when using hybrid or
   targeted judgement approaches:
   • Location of the worker
   • Potential sources and routes of exposure
   • Workplace processes and any controls releasing or removing the contaminant
   • Physical state of the agent (e.g., particulate)
   • Mechanisms of transport (e.g., natural or mechanical ventilation, liquid transport)
       and deposition (sedimentation or diffusion)
   • Housekeeping methods and frequency
   • Cleaning and contamination history (e.g., when was the surface last cleaned)
   • Possible interferences
   • Need for comparisons within and/or between work locations
   • Regulatory requirements

   When designing hybrid and targeted judgement sampling plans, the surface cleaning and
   contamination history should be documented in any type of sampling strategy and
   considered when choosing sampling locations. Engineering and administrative controls
   (such as local exhaust ventilation and housekeeping procedures) should be documented
   along with process activities that can result in contamination. This information should be
   identified beforehand and thoroughly noted during sampling to best interpret sampling
   results. Gather information about cleaning practices in the areas being sampled, for
   example, cleaning method, materials used, date last cleaned, cleaning frequency, and if
   attempts to determine cleaning efficacy have been made. For instance, if certain surfaces
   are identified as surrogates for air deposition or material migration, the time elapsed
   since the sampled surfaces were last cleaned should recorded to be able to make
   comparisons across locations. Further, researchers should understand where, when, and
   how often the contaminating processes occur relative to the surface sampled. Lastly,


 NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods  5th Edition  Chapter SG      August 2022       Page SG-20 of SG-42
                  Surface Sampling Guidance, Considerations, and Methods in Occupational Hygiene



      document the extent of contact between workers and the surface being sampled either
      quantitatively (e.g., measures or estimated surface area of skin exposed, number,
      frequency, or duration of contact) or qualitatively (e.g., noting presence or absence of
      contact). These data or information could be used in risk assessment and to identify
      exposure controls or interventions, but that is beyond the scope of this chapter. This
      auxiliary information can be used as justification for surface selection during targeted
      judgement or hybrid sampling.

      When assessing the efficacy of housekeeping and controls used to contain contamination
      to specific workspaces (e.g., not moving tools outside of a contaminated zone or placing
      showers and locker rooms to separate clean and contaminated areas), samples may need
      to be taken from locations that are occupied by workers but removed from the process
      generating the agent being sampled. Examples include breakrooms, bathrooms, office or
      nonindustrial spaces, locker rooms, or work vehicles.

b. Case study: Sampling for Bacillus anthracis
  A hybrid approach would be appropriate when sampling for Bacillus anthracis spores after a
  suspected release or contamination event. The Government Accountability Office (GAO) led
  a multi-agency project to evaluate anthrax sampling procedures in a post-release
  environment. The GAO called upon agencies to develop statistical surface sampling strategies
  for Bacillus anthracis to increase confidence in negative results. Respondents to this request
  published proposed sampling strategies for sampling and clearance of suspected contaminated
  areas [GAO 2005; Piepel et al. 2013; Sego et al. 2007]. Response to a release event may require
  two phases of surface sampling. The first phase is site characterization to determine if and
  where surfaces are contaminated. The second phase is verification that decontamination was
  effective to a nondetect or acceptable level [Sego et al. 2007]. Alternatively, targeted judgement
  sampling can be used in parallel with random sampling to reduce the number of random
  samples needed to achieve confidence that an area or room is uncontaminated [Sego et al.
  2007].

c. Sampling strategies for regulatory compliance
  Some regulations dictate when and where sampling must be conducted. For example, states
  and local authorities have surface limits for methamphetamine in remediated sites that were
  previously clandestine methamphetamine production sites [EPA 2021e], and post-
  remediation sampling is required. As more states adopt fentanyl laboratory remediation
  requirements, fentanyl and fentanyl-analogue wet sampling methods are being developed with
  the intent of optimizing collection efficiency and lowering limits of quantitation [Ciesielski et


    NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods  5th Edition  Chapter SG      August 2022       Page SG-21 of SG-42
                  Surface Sampling Guidance, Considerations, and Methods in Occupational Hygiene



  al. 2021]. In contrast, the Occupational Health and Safety Administration (OSHA) regulations
  for Pb and Be on workplace surfaces are not explicit and instruct employers to maintain
  workplace surfaces “as free as practicable” of the contaminant; they do not dictate a particular
  sampling strategy nor specific limits that must be met [OSHA 2020]. However, a 1993
  Compliance Directive recommends the use of the Department of Housing and Urban
  Development (HUD) acceptable decontamination level for Pb on floors in evaluating
  changing area, storage facilities, lunchrooms, and eating areas—indicating that those locations
  should be sampled for comparison to that limit [OSHA 1993, 2003a].

d. Composite sampling
  Composite sampling is where individual samples are collected and then combined and
  analyzed together. Generally, this technique is used to reduce the number of analyses required,
  thereby reducing analytical costs while maintaining a representative number of samples. The
  decision to use composite sampling is based first on whether the resulting data will fit the
  sampling strategy goals. Composite sampling should not be used when the results for
  individual sampling locations are necessary, as that information is lost during composite
  analysis. All samples included in the composite should be from the same surface or type of
  surface being evaluated. Sample compositing is most often done in the workplace when the
  analyte is expected to be low. Compositing can increase the likelihood that a laboratory
  detection or reporting limit is reached or establish that surfaces are not contaminated if
  composited sample results remain below the reporting limit or below selected criteria for
  action.

  If it is decided that composite sampling can be used to meet the sampling strategy goals, then
  these choices should be determined: analysis method, sample media, and criteria for
  comparison and re-sampling. Samples that make up a composite sample should be taken with
  the same media and technique and in the same sampling area [HUD 2012; NIOSH 2011a].
  Applying limits or criteria designed for discrete samples (noncomposited) is not typically
  appropriate for composite samples. Conditions for surface resampling should be decided on
  before carrying out composite sampling. In the United States, the residential Pb clearance
  regulatory requirements explicitly allow for the compositing of up to four wipe samples, if
  they were all taken of the same component, as long as the samples are tested by a laboratory
  recognized by the National Lead Laboratory Accreditation Program [ASTM 2011a; HUD
  2012]. Composite sampling can be used for post-clean-up of methamphetamine sampling,
  particularly when contamination is expected to be uniform [EPA 2021e].




    NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods  5th Edition  Chapter SG      August 2022       Page SG-22 of SG-42
                      Surface Sampling Guidance, Considerations, and Methods in Occupational Hygiene



     The limit of detection for composite samples may be higher than that for discrete samples
     because of the increased volume of desorption liquid required for a large sampling media
     material [NIOSH 2011b]. NIOSH recommends that the composite results be reported over the
     total sample area, rather than averaged to the area of a single sample [NIOSH 2011c]. If the
     sampling goals require information about the average contamination, then an average
     contamination over a single sample area is useful [EPA 1995a]. However, if the goal is to
     compare results to criteria meant for a single sample, calculating the maximum possible
     amount of contaminant on a single sample would be more appropriate for comparison. If that
     maximum possible amount of contaminant exceeds an action level or limit, then resampling
     of those areas or similar areas is necessary because composited surface samples cannot be
     analyzed separately after they have been combined. Additional samples would need to be
     taken to elucidate the variation in surface contamination. Therefore, the plan should account
     for whether a surface has sufficient area to be resampled and how that would be done,
     depending on composite sample results.

     Compositing wipe samples can lead to analytical difficulties [NIOSH 2003]. For example,
     compositing samples may lead to increased background signal or analytical noise, ending with
     increased total dissolved solid concentrations that may require dilution for analysis,
     depending on the analysis technique and/or instrument configuration. When considering
     composite sampling, verify that the analytical laboratory has the capacity to analyze composite
     samples, and if so, that it can be done with the necessary sensitivity to meet the sample
     strategy objectives [EPA 2018].


5 Criteria for surface contamination
In the United States, national regulatory surface contamination levels have been established for Pb,
Be, and PCBs [DOE 1999; EPA 2021b; 10 CFR § 850, 1999; 40 CFR § 745.227, 2000; 40 CFR § 761,
1978]. To comply with residential EPA Pb contamination regulations, clearance surface samples
must be collected using documented methodologies that incorporate adequate quality control
procedures and are reviewed by a certified inspector or risk assessor [40 CFR § 745.227] [OSHA
2020, 2003a]. Very low Be surface regulatory levels for housekeeping and decontamination have
been established to reduce the risk of Be sensitization through contact with the skin [Rondeau
2009]. Not all regulations for Pb and Be surface levels are explicit. For example, OSHA requires
work surfaces to be “as free as practicable” from Pb and Be [OSHA 2020]. Specific criteria have not
been established by OSHA for these contaminants, but some interpretation guidance has been
provided [OSHA 2003a]. The regulations establishing Be surface contamination limits do not
provide for a required standard sample collection method, leaving the sampling methodology up to


        NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods  5th Edition  Chapter SG      August 2022       Page SG-23 of SG-42
                      Surface Sampling Guidance, Considerations, and Methods in Occupational Hygiene



individual sites, although the analysis must be conducted by a laboratory accredited by AIHA or
equivalent. DOE has provided an implementation guidance to professionals on exposure sampling,
including surface sampling [DOE 2010].

Few consensus surface limits have been established for occupational exposures. Starting in 2019, the
American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists (ACGIH®) began publishing surface
limit threshold limit values (TLV®-SL) for some chemicals. These limits are intended to supplement
their published airborne limits, particularly for agents with known skin absorption and sensitization
capacities [ACGIH 2021]. These limits are expressed as a mass per 100 cm2 and may correspond
with the dose permitted by the 8-hour time-weighted average TLV® unless data are available about
effects related to dermal exposure alone. As of 2021, ACGIH® had established TLV®-SLs for two
chemicals, o-phthalaldehyde and methyltetrahydrophthalic anhydride [ACGIH 2021].

Worker exposure to pharmaceutical substances through contact with the skin is a hazard being
addressed, in part, by the development of guidelines for acceptable surface limits (ASLs) for such
compounds [Kimmel et al. 2011]. Beyond the factors considered for sampling and analysis, some
essential criteria to account for in establishing ASLs include skin penetration or dermal uptake,
concentration of active pharmaceutical ingredient(s), mechanisms of toxicity and identified health
outcomes, duration and frequency of contact, and individual susceptibility. In efforts to prevent
dermal exposures, related “guidance values” for surface monitoring of antineoplastic drugs have
been proposed for selected chemotherapy agents [Kiffmeyer et al. 2013; Schierl et al. 2009].

If limits are established for a given analyte, the sensitivity of the method should be able to
quantitatively detect the analyte of interest well below the limit. This normally requires that the
method detection limit (MDL) be at most one tenth of the limit. To reiterate, it is essential that the
sampling and analytical method be considered when establishing limit values for chemical and
biological agents on surfaces.


6 Consensus standards and other resources for
  published surface sampling methods
When identifying methods to meet sampling goals, using standardized protocols can enable data
comparisons; foster consistency, defensibility, and reproducibility; and help maintain expected data
quality. ASTM International have published consensus standards for surface sampling, including
the Standard Guide for Strategies for Surface Sampling of Metals and Metalloids for Worker
Protection (ASTM D7659) [ASTM 2021b]. Many of the considerations outlined in this standard are




        NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods  5th Edition  Chapter SG      August 2022       Page SG-24 of SG-42
                      Surface Sampling Guidance, Considerations, and Methods in Occupational Hygiene



applicable to other potentially hazardous agents besides metals, such as organics, radioactive
materials, and biological agents.

U.S. government agencies are directed by the National Technology Transfer and Advancement Act
(NTTAA) to contribute to the development of voluntary consensus standards. They are further
instructed to include these standards in regulatory requirements in lieu of developing unique
government regulations where practicable and consistent with applicable laws [OMB 2016]. Many
published occupational exposure assessment consensus standards, and those under development,
are based initially on existing government agency methods, guides, and procedures. Ultimately, it is
intended that the use of consensus standards will enhance data comparability for surface or dermal
samples obtained from different investigators, for various substances, from a variety of locations,
surfaces, etc.

Various ASTM standards that apply to surface sampling in occupational settings and related locales
have been published and are summarized in Table 2. ASTM standards describing wetted wipe
sample collection for metals and metalloids have been published (ASTM D6966, ASTM E1728).
Using ASTM wipe sampling methods, when carried out with wetted wipes meeting performance
specifications (e.g., ASTM E1792 or ASTM D7707), have been shown to provide collection
efficiencies of >75% for target metallic analytes (i.e., Pb and Be) [Dufay and Archuleta 2006; EPA
1995b]. ASTM has implemented a surface tape stripping method (ASTM E1216) that applies to
multiple analytes and published a surface tape stripping method for sampling fungal spores (ASTM
D7910).

When the sampling surface is rough or porous, and wet wipe sampling or tape stripping is deemed
impractical, vacuum collection methods (e.g., ASTM D5438, ASTM D5755, and ASTM D7144) are
used in lieu of wiping or stripping techniques [Creek et al. 2006]. In rare cases where the surface to
be sampled is energized, fragile, or reactive, and if Be is the only analyte of interest, dry-wipe
sampling (ASTM D7296) is an option for sample collection. In addition, ASTM has published
procedures for the following: surface sampling of asbestos by vacuum sampling (ASTM D5755) or
wiping (ASTM D6840), wipe sampling of organic compounds (ASTM D6661), swab collecting of
fungi (ASTM D7789) and other biological agents (ASTM E2458), and collecting pesticide residues
from floors (ASTM D6333) (Table 2). Consider the limitations in the published standards when
developing a sampling plan. For example, ASTM 6661-17, a standard practice for collecting organic
compounds from surfaces using wipe sampling, is not intended to be used to collect dust samples
nor to conduct sampling to estimate human exposure to contaminated surfaces [ASTM 2017b].

Consensus surface sampling methods for Pb, Be, and asbestos were developed, largely in response to
regulations in the United States [Ashley et al. 1996; Ashley et al. 2009; Kominsky and Millette 2011].


        NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods  5th Edition  Chapter SG      August 2022       Page SG-25 of SG-42
                           Surface Sampling Guidance, Considerations, and Methods in Occupational Hygiene



    Besides the ASTM standard surface sampling guide for metals (ASTM D7659) already mentioned,
    ASTM also developed an analogous standard sampling guide for asbestos (ASTM D7390) [ASTM
    2018c]. An ASTM standard having several different surface sampling and analytical applications
    describes various sample collection methods, such as tape stripping, wipes, cotton balls, for biofilms,
    carbon black, soot, etc. (ASTM D6602). This standard has been used in outdoor urban applications
    [Millette et al. 2011].

    Other ASTM standards relating to surface sampling and assessing surface contamination have been
    developed to address applications in clean rooms and aerospace (Table 4). While these voluntary
    consensus standard protocols are targeted for specialized uses, there may be situations where the
    standards could be applied to assessing contamination in occupational, indoor, and other
    environments.

Table 4. ASTM International standard procedures for surface sampling in aerospace and clean room
applications*
 ASTM Standard          Sampling                 Target Substrate(s)      Comments
 Designation            Media/Device             Sampled

 ASTM F303                   Rinse method                  Aerospace components          Collection of particulate
                                                                                         matter for assessment of
                                                                                         cleanliness

 ASTM F51                    Particle sizing instrument    Clean room garments           Evaluation of
                                                                                         contamination from
                                                                                         fibers and particles

 ASTM E2088                  “Witness” test surface        Clean room surfaces           Measurement of particle
                                                                                         deposition

 ASTM F24                    Optical particle counter      Electronic components         Assessment of surface
                                                                                         contamination

      *Standards are available at www.astm.org.


      a. Radioisotopes
         ISO has made available a three-part international standard, ISO 7503, that addresses the
         measurement of surface contamination by radioactive materials [ISO 2016]. These three
         standards entail the measurement of radioisotopes on surfaces of equipment and in facilities,
         but they do not apply to the evaluation of radioactive contamination on skin or clothing.
         Methods for direct and indirect measurement of radionuclides collected from surfaces are


             NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods  5th Edition  Chapter SG       August 2022      Page SG-26 of SG-42
                  Surface Sampling Guidance, Considerations, and Methods in Occupational Hygiene



  described in these ISO standards. Part 1 of ISO 7503 describes general principles relating to
  the assessment of surface radioactive contamination by direct and indirect measurements.
  Part 2 of the standard addresses wipe testing measurement protocols, and Part 3 covers the
  calibration aspects of instruments used for the evaluation of radioactive surface
  contaminations.

b. Healthcare settings
  Wipe sampling and analysis has been used effectively for surface monitoring of antineoplastic
  drugs and related drug residues in healthcare settings [Connor et al. 2016; Nygren 2006;
  Nygren and Lindahl 2011]. Guidance values for wipe sampling have been proposed for
  chemotherapy drugs such as cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil, based on extensive data from surface
  monitoring in pharmacies [Schierl et al. 2009]. Recommendations on surface “threshold
  guidance values” for antineoplastic drugs and related compounds can help pharmacists (and
  others potentially exposed workers) assess controls (e.g., safe material handling,
  cleaning/decontamination efficacy) and maintain contaminant-free work environments.

  Research shows that implementing safety measures and monitoring work practices reduced
  contamination by antineoplastic drugs in healthcare settings, as determined through surface
  sampling [Kopp et al. 2013]. Field screening methods for on-site, near real-time monitoring of
  several antineoplastic drugs in surface samples have been developed and undergone some
  validation [Smith et al. 2016]. For exposure prevention efforts, these screening techniques can
  be used in complementary fashion with definitive fixed-site laboratory methods using mass
  spectrometric analysis [Pretty et al. 2012].

c. Reference and standard surface sampling and
   analytical methods
  Table 1 lists existing NIOSH surface sampling and analytical methods, which NIOSH
  continues to review and update in the NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods (NMAM).
  NMAM 5th edition (www.cdc.gov/niosh/nmam) should be consulted for the most up-to-date
  information on NIOSH methods [NIOSH 2022]. Another useful source with several surface
  sampling methods for industrial hygiene applications is the OSHA analytical methods manual
  [OSHA 2003b], which offers surface sample collection protocols for inorganic and organic
  analytes. OSHA has also released evaluation guidelines for surface sampling and analytical
  methods [OSHA 2000]. These guidelines are complementary to guidance and
  recommendations offered by other sources, such as NIOSH, ASTM, AIHA, ACGIH, ISO, and
  Brookhaven National Laboratory (BNL), among others.



    NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods  5th Edition  Chapter SG      August 2022       Page SG-27 of SG-42
                  Surface Sampling Guidance, Considerations, and Methods in Occupational Hygiene



BNL has disseminated guidance on surface sampling based on NIOSH 9100 and related
standardized methods [BNL 2017]. The various sampling media, wetting agents, and
templates, depending on the analyte(s) of interest and surface area to be sampled, are
summarized below:

Sampling media

•     Gauze, cotton (5 or 10 cm dia.)
•     Filter paper, ashless (4–10 cm dia.)
•     Premoistened wipe, e.g., cellulosic, polyvinyl alcohol (PVA)
•     Filter, polyvinyl chloride (PVC) or quartz fiber (for Cr(VI) sampling)

Solvents

•     Distilled water
•     Alcohol: 2-propanol, ethanol, methanol
•     n-Hexane

Templates

•     10 × 10 cm or 30 × 30 cm square
•     11.3 cm diameter circle (for 100 cm2 area)



Required and recommended criteria for surface sampling for metals are summarized in BNL
guidance [BNL 2017]. Elemental sampling normally entails the use of a wipe of a material that
is appropriate for the agent, wetted with deionized water and a minimum sample collection
area of 100 cm2. These protocols for metals are harmonized with the standardized elemental
sampling methods that are summarized in Table 2. An exception is when sampling Cr(VI),
which is carried out in accordance with OSHA method W4001 [OSHA 2001]. This procedure
uses dry, inert filters for surface sampling to prevent reduction of Cr(VI) by wetting agents
during or after sample collection. The filters are placed into a basic carbonate buffer
immediately after sampling to stabilize Cr(VI) in the collected sample. Recommendations for
surface sampling of PAHs entail the use of an organic solvent as a wetting agent, in
accordance with ASTM D6661 (Table 2).

The DOE established an action level for Be, and the EPA established an action level for Pb,
both of which are regulatory, and thus have associated sampling methods or sampling
guidance [DOE 1999; EPA 2021b].


    NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods  5th Edition  Chapter SG      August 2022       Page SG-28 of SG-42
                      Surface Sampling Guidance, Considerations, and Methods in Occupational Hygiene



7 Bulk sample collection
While methods for obtaining bulk samples (e.g., settled, rafter, or floor dusts) are beyond the scope
of this chapter, we briefly mention them here as these techniques often complement surface and/or
dermal sampling and may provide insights about particulates and aerosols that may have been
airborne at one time. EPA provides information on bulk sampling methods for soils, solid waste,
field equipment, etc. and published a comprehensive document covering issues including the
following [EPA 2002]:
       • Sampling strategies and design
       • Sampling techniques, media, and equipment
       • Standardized sampling procedures developed through voluntary consensus (notably
           ASTM International standards)
       • Data quality considerations pertaining to sample collection, sample handling, and
           transport

Relevant ASTM standards on collecting bulk samples are in a compendium publication on
environmental sampling [ASTM 2014]. Additional research is needed on situations when it is more
appropriate to use bulk sampling in lieu of surface sampling. For occupational environments,
performance data and guidelines on bulk sampling are rather limited.


8 Summary
Surface sampling considerations include first developing a sampling rationale and goals, and then
constructing a strategy that supports the sampling objectives. Choosing appropriate sample
collection media and using techniques that are validated and applicable to surface and dermal
sampling in occupational settings are also critical sampling plan components. While this chapter
highlights available standardized surface sample collection methods, it is not meant to be an
exhaustive review; rather, it presents guidance and examples of pertinent research and related
recommendations and standards. The NTTAA directs government agencies to contribute to the
development of consensus standards and to utilize them when available and relevant [OMB 2016].
Methods for surface sampling from smooth, hard surfaces are now reasonably well-documented
and standardized for several analytes, as evidenced by the availability of relevant international
voluntary consensus standards for various contaminants. Additionally, vacuum sampling methods
for collecting dust from rough, porous (and other) surfaces have also been standardized in the form
of ASTM procedures (ASTM D5438, D5755, D7144).




        NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods  5th Edition  Chapter SG      August 2022       Page SG-29 of SG-42
                       Surface Sampling Guidance, Considerations, and Methods in Occupational Hygiene



Dermal sampling methods for chemical and biological agents require additional harmonization and
evaluation despite some newer protocols and guidance documents. These final summary
recommendations should be underscored. The following essential to consider for surface sampling
and analysis before collecting samples:
      • Existence and accessibility of sensitive and specific analytical methods for the analytes of
          interest, including accredited laboratory analytical capability and availability
      • Existing validated sampling methods or research that document reliability or
          representativeness to measure: stability, reactivity, toxicity, volatility, etc.
      • Characteristics of the surface(s) to be sampled: smooth or rough, hard vs. porous, inert or
          reactive, dermal, orientation and location
      • Availability of sampling media: uncontaminated background, analyte and sampling
          recovery, chemical compatibility, ruggedness/durability
      • Wetting agent or extraction solution: aqueous—neutral/acid/basic; organics—low/high
          polarity; recovery from extractant
      • Loading/contamination level: trace; highly contaminated; variability across surface, etc.
      • Dynamic range of analytical method: accuracy at low, medium, and high levels of analyte.
      • Considerations for storage and transportation of samples (e.g., storage stability,
          temperature considerations, shipping regulations)
      • Exposure controls (e.g., training, personal protective equipment) required for sample
          collection

Disclaimer

Mention of any company or product does not constitute endorsement by the National Institute for
Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). In
addition, citations to websites external to NIOSH do not constitute NIOSH endorsement of the
sponsoring organizations or their programs or products. Furthermore, NIOSH is not responsible for
the content of these websites. All web addresses referenced in this document were accessible as of the
publication date.


9 References
Chronic Beryllium Disease Prevention Program. 10 CFR § 850 (1999).

Work practice standards for conducting lead-based paint activities: target housing and child-
occupied facilities. 40 CFR § 745.227 (2000).




         NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods  5th Edition  Chapter SG      August 2022       Page SG-30 of SG-42
                       Surface Sampling Guidance, Considerations, and Methods in Occupational Hygiene



Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBS) manufacturing, processing, distribution in commerce, and use
prohibitions. 40 CFR § 761 (1978).

ACGIH [2021]. TLVs and BEIs based on the documentation of the threshold limit values for
chemical substances and physical agents and biological exposure indices. Cincinnati, Ohio:
American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists.

Angelini DJ, Biggs TD, Maughan MN, Feasel MG, Sisco E, Sekowski JW [2019]. Evaluation of a
lateral flow immunoassay for the detection of the synthetic opioid fentanyl. Forensic Sci Int 300:75–
81, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.forsciint.2019.04.019.

Ashley K, Applegate GT, Wise TJ, Fernback JE, Goldcamp MJ [2007]. Evaluation of a standardized
micro-vacuum sampling method for collection of surface dust. J Occup Environ Hyg 4(3):215–223,
https://doi.org/10.1080/15459620601177461.

Ashley K, Braybrooke G, Jahn SD, Brisson MJ, White KT [2009]. Analytical performance criteria.
Standardized surface dust sampling methods for metals, with emphasis on beryllium. J Occup
Environ Hyg 6(12):D97–D100, https://doi.org/10.1080/15459620903022597.

Ashley K, Brisson M, White K [2011]. Review of standards for surface and dermal sampling. J ASTM
Int 8(6):1–9, http://doi.org/10.1520/JAI103678.

Ashley K, Schlecht PC, Song R, Feng A, Dewalt G, McKnight ME [1996]. ASTM sampling methods
and analytical validation for lead in paint, dust, soil, and air. In: Sampling environmental media, STP
1282. Morgan JH, ed. West Conshohocken, PA: American Society for Testing and Materials.

ASTM [2011a]. Development of two sample preparation methods for determination of lead in
composite dust wipe samples. J ASTM Int 8(3):103466, http://doi.org/10.1520/JAI103466.

ASTM [2011b]. ASTM STP 1533 Surface and dermal sampling. Ashley K, ed. American Society for
Testing and Materials. West Conshohocken, PA: ASTM International,
https://doi.org/10.1520/STP1533-EB.

ASTM [2014]. ASTM Standards related to environmental sampling. 5th ed. American Society for
Testing and Materials. West Conshohocken, PA: ASTM International.

ASTM [2017a]. D5438-17 Standard practice for collection of floor dust for chemical analysis.
American Society for Testing and Materials. West Conshohocken, PA: ASTM International,
https://doi.org/10.1520/D5438-17.




         NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods  5th Edition  Chapter SG      August 2022       Page SG-31 of SG-42
                      Surface Sampling Guidance, Considerations, and Methods in Occupational Hygiene



ASTM [2017b]. D6661-17 Standard practice for field collection of organic compounds from surfaces
using wipe sampling. American Society for Testing and Materials. West Conshohocken, PA: ASTM
International, .https://www.astm.org/d666-17.

ASTM [2018a]. D6966-18 Standard practice for collection of settled dust samples using wipe
sampling methods for subsequent determination of metals. American Society for Testing and
Materials. West Conshohocken, PA: ASTM International, https://www.astm.org/D6966-18.

ASTM [2018b]. D7296-18 Standard practice for collection of settled dust samples using dry wipe
sampling methods for subsequent determination of beryllium and compounds. American Society
for Testing and Materials. West Conshohocken, PA: ASTM International, https://www.astm.org/
D7296-18.

ASTM [2018c]. D7390-18e1 Standard guide for evaluating asbestos in dust on surfaces by
comparison between two environments. American Society for Testing and Materials. West
Conshohocken, PA: ASTM International, https://www.astm.org/D7390-18E01.

ASTM [2019]. D7822-18 Standard practice for dermal wipe sampling for the subsequent
determination of metals and metalloids. American Society for Testing and Materials. West
Conshohocken, PA: ASTM International, https://www.astm.org/D7822-18.

ASTM [2020]. E1792-20 Standard specification for wipe sampling materials for lead in surface dust.
American Society for Testing and Materials. West Conshohocken, PA: ASTM International,
https://www.astm.org/e1792-20.html.

ASTM [2021a]. ASTM D8358-21 Standard guide for assessment and inclusion of wall deposits in the
analysis of single-stage samplers for airborne particulate matter. American Society for Testing and
Materials. West Conshohocken, PA: ASTM International, https://www.astm.org/D8358-21.html.

ASTM [2021b]. D7659-21 Standard guide for strategies for surface sampling of metals and
metalloids for worker protection. American Society for Testing and Materials. West Conshohocken,
PA: ASTM International, https://doi.org/10.1520/D7659-21.

ASTM [2021c]. D7707-21 Standard specification for wipe sampling materials for beryllium in
surface dust. American Society for Testing and Materials. West Conshohocken, PA: ASTM
International, https://doi.org/10.1520/D7707-21.

Beaucham CC, Ceballos D, Mueller C, Page E, La Guardia MJ [2019]. Field evaluation of sequential
hand wipes for flame retardant exposure in an electronics recycling facility. Chemosphere 219:472–
481, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chemosphere.2018.12.027.



        NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods  5th Edition  Chapter SG      August 2022       Page SG-32 of SG-42
                       Surface Sampling Guidance, Considerations, and Methods in Occupational Hygiene



Bernard CE, Berry MR, Wymer LJ, Melnyk LJ [2008]. Sampling household surfaces for pesticide
residues: comparison between a press sampler and solvent-moistened wipes. Sci Total Environ
389(2):514–521, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2007.08.044.

BNL [2017]. Surface wipe sampling procedure (IH75190). Upton, NY: Brookhaven National
Laboratory, https://www.bnl.gov/esh/shsd/sop/pdf/ih_sops/ih75190.pdf.

Boeniger M [2006]. A comparison of surface wipe media for sampling lead on hands. J Occup
Environ Hyg 3(8):428–434, https://doi.org/10.1080/15459620600802754.

Boeniger M, Sahmel J, Walton J, Roy R [2015]. Dermal exposure monitoring and estimation of
dermal exposures. Appendix II. In: A strategy for assessing and managing occupational exposures.
Jahn SD, Bullock WH, Ignacio JS, eds. Falls Church, VA: American Industrial Hygiene Association.

Boeniger MF [2003]. The significance of skin exposure. Ann Occup Hyg 47(8):591–593,
https://doi.org/10.1093/annhyg/meg095.

Brouwer DH, Boeniger MF, van Hemmen J [2000]. Hand wash and manual skin wipes. Ann Occup
Hyg 44(7):501–510, https://doi.org/10.1093/annhyg/44.7.501.

Calfee M, Shah S, Lee S, Mickelsen R, Cruz F, Karim K, Ackelsberg J, Gemelli M, Hofacre K [2019].
Evaluation of analytical methods for the detection of Bacillus anthracis spores: compatibility with
real-world samples collected from outdoor and subway surfaces. Washington, DC: U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, EPA/600/R-19/083,
https://cfpub.epa.gov/si/si_public_record_report.cfm?Lab=NHSRC&dirEntryId=346146&fed_org_i
d=1253.

Calfee MW, Rose LJ, Morse S, Mattorano D, Clayton M, Touati A, Griffin-Gatchalian N, Slone C,
McSweeney N [2013]. Comparative evaluation of vacuum-based surface sampling methods for
collection of Bacillus spores. J Microbiol Methods 95(3):389–396,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mimet.2013.10.015.

Cettier J, Bayle ML, Béranger R, Billoir E, Nuckols JR, Combourieu B, Fervers B [2015]. Efficiency of
wipe sampling on hard surfaces for pesticides and PCB residues in dust. Sci Total Environ 505:11–21,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2014.09.086.

Chavalitnitikul C, Levin L [1984]. A laboratory evaluation of wipe testing based on lead oxide surface
contamination. Am Ind Hyg Assoc J 45(5):311–317, https://doi.org/10.1080/15298668491399848.




         NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods  5th Edition  Chapter SG      August 2022       Page SG-33 of SG-42
                      Surface Sampling Guidance, Considerations, and Methods in Occupational Hygiene



Cherrie JW, Semple S, Christopher Y, Saleem A, Hughson GW, Philips A [2006]. How important is
inadvertent ingestion of hazardous substances at work? Ann Occup Hyg 50(7):693–704,
https://doi.org/10.1093/annhyg/mel035.

Ciesielski AL, Wagner JR, Alexander-Scott M, Snawder J [2021]. An optimized method for sample
collection, extraction, and analysis of fentanyl and fentanyl analogs from a non-porous surface.
Talanta 228:122210, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.talanta.2021.122210.

Connor TH, Zock MD, Snow AH [2016]. Surface wipe sampling for antineoplastic (chemotherapy)
and other hazardous drug residue in healthcare settings: methodology and recommendations. J
Occup Environ Hyg 13(9):658–667, https://doi.org/10.1080%2F15459624.2016.1165912.

Creek KL, Whitney G, Ashley K [2006]. Vacuum sampling techniques for industrial hygienists, with
emphasis on beryllium dust sampling. J Environ Monit 8(6):612–618,
https://doi.org/10.1039/b601572g.

DOE [1999]. Chronic beryllium disease prevention program, Washington DC: Department of
Energy, https://www.energy.gov/ehss/chronic-beryllium-disease-prevention-program-10-cfr-850.

DOE [2010]. 10 CFR Part 850 Implementation guide for use with chronic beryllium disease
prevention program. Washington, DC: Department of Energy,
https://www.directives.doe.gov/directives-documents/400-series/0440.1-EGuide-7a.

Deziel NC, Viet SM, Rogers JW, Camann DE, Marker DA, Heikkinen MSA, Yau AY, Stout DM II,
Dellarco M [2011]. Comparison of wipe materials and wetting agents for pesticide residue collection
from hard surfaces. Sci Total Environ 409(20):4442–4448,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2011.07.002.

Dufay SK, Archuleta M [2006]. Comparison of collection efficiencies of sampling methods for
removable beryllium surface contamination. J Environ Monit 8(6):630–633,
https://doi.org/10.1039/b601526n.

ECETOC [2004]. Targeted risk assessment. Technical Report No. 93. Brussels, Belgium: European
Centre for Ecotoxicology and Toxicology of Chemicals, https://www.ecetoc.org/wp-
content/uploads/2021/10/ECETOC-TR-093.pdf.

ECETOC [2009]. TR 107 Addendum to ECETOC Targeted Risk Assessment Technical Report No.
93. Brussels, Belgium, European Centre for Ecotoxicology and Toxicology of Chemicals, TR 107 -
Addendum to ECETOC Targeted Risk Assessment Technical Report No. 93 - ECETOC.




        NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods  5th Edition  Chapter SG      August 2022       Page SG-34 of SG-42
                       Surface Sampling Guidance, Considerations, and Methods in Occupational Hygiene



ECETOC [2010]. Targeted risk assessment (TRA) tool. Brussels, Belgium: European Centre for
Ecotoxicology and Toxicology of Chemicals, https://www.ecetoc.org/tools/tra-main/.

EPA [1995a]. EPA observational economy series, Vol. 1. Composite sampling. Washington, DC: U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, https://www.epa.gov/sites/default/files/2016-
03/documents/comp-samp.pdf.

EPA [1995b]. Sampling house dust for lead basic concepts and literature review. Washington, DC:
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, https://www.epa.gov/lead/sampling-house-dust-lead-basic-
concepts-and-literature-review-final-report-epa-747-r-95-007.

EPA [2002]. RCRA waste sampling draft technical guidance: planning, implementation and
assessment. Washington, DC: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency,
https://www.epa.gov/sites/default/files/2015-10/documents/rwsdtg_0.pdf.

EPA [2008]. Guidance for the sampling and analysis of lead in indoor residental dust for use in the
Integrated Exposure Uptake Biokinetic (IEUBK) model. Washington, DC: U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency, https://semspub.epa.gov/work/11/174572.pdf.

EPA [2013]. ChemSTEER user guide: chemical screening tool for exposures and environmental
releases. Washington, DC: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, https://www.epa.gov/tsca-
screening-tools/chemsteer-chemical-screening-tool-exposures-and-environmental-releases.

EPA [2018]. Answers to frequent questions about EPA’s Lead Renovation, Repair and Painting
(RRP) Rule (March 22, 2018, revised March 21, 2022). Washington, DC: U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency, https://www.epa.gov/lead/answers-frequent-questions-about-epas-lead-
renovation-repair-and-painting-rrp-rule.

EPA [2019]. Consumer Exposure Model (CEM) Version 2.1 user’s guide. Prepared for the EPA
Office Of Pollution Prevention and Toxics by ICF under EPA Contract # EP-W-12-010.
Washington, DC: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, https://www.epa.gov/tsca-screening-
tools/consumer-exposure-model-cem-version-21-users-guide.

EPA [2021a]. Assessing and managing chemicals under TSCA Section 4 test orders. Washington,
DC: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, https://www.epa.gov/assessing-and-managing-
chemicals-under-tsca/list-chemicals-subject-section-4-test-orders.

EPA [2021b]. Review of dust-lead post abatement clearance levels, final rule. March 8. Washington,
DC: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, https://www.regulations.gov/document/EPA-HQ-
OPPT-2020-0063-0382.



         NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods  5th Edition  Chapter SG      August 2022       Page SG-35 of SG-42
                      Surface Sampling Guidance, Considerations, and Methods in Occupational Hygiene



EPA [2021c]. Selecting a sampling design. Washington, DC: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency,
https://www.epa.gov/quality/selecting-sampling-design.

EPA [2021d]. Using professional judgment to develop a sampling design. Washington DC: U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, https://www.epa.gov/quality/using-professional-judgment-
develop-sampling-design.

EPA [2021e]. Voluntary guidelines for methamphetamine and fentanyl laboratory cleanup.
Washington DC: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, EPA-540-B-21-002,
https://www.epa.gov/emergency-response/voluntary-guidelines-methamphetamine-and-fentanyl-
laboratory-cleanup-document.

Esswein E, Boeniger M, Ashley K [2011]. Handwipe method for removing lead from skin. J ASTM
Int 8(5):1–10, https://doi.org/10.1520/JAI103527.

Fenske RA [1993]. Dermal exposure assessment techniques. Ann Occup Hyg 37(6):687–706,
https://doi.org/10.1093/annhyg/37.6.687.

Fent KW, Alexander B, Roberts J, Robertson S, Toennis C, Sammons D, Bertke S, Kerber S, Smith D,
Horn G [2017]. Contamination of firefighter personal protective equipment and skin and the
effectiveness of decontamination procedures. J Occup Enviro Hyg 14(10):801–814,
https://doi.org/10.1080/15459624.2017.1334904.

Fent KW, Eisenberg J, Snawder J, Sammons D, Pleil JD, Stiegel MA, Mueller C, Horn GP, Dalton J
[2014]. Systemic exposure to PAHS and benzene in firefighters suppressing controlled structure
fires. Ann Occup Hyg 58(7):830–845, https://doi.org/10.1093%2Fannhyg%2Fmeu036.

Frasch HF, Dotson GS, Bunge AL, Chen C-P, Cherrie JW, Kasting GB, Kissel JC, Sahmel J, Semple S,
Wilkinson S [2014]. Analysis of finite dose dermal absorption data: implications for dermal exposure
assessment. J Expo Sci Environ Epidemiol 24(1):65–73, https://doi.org/10.1038/jes.2013.23.

GAO [2005]. Anthrax detection: agencies need to validate sampling activities in order to increase
confidence in negative results. Washington DC: United States Government Accountability Office,
Report No. GAO-05-251.

HUD [2012]. Guidelines for the evaluation and control of lead-based paint hazards in housing, 2nd
ed. Washington, DC: Department of Housing and Urban Development, LBPH-02.PDF (hud.gov).

ISO [2011]. ISO/TR 14294 Workplace atmospheres—measurement of dermal exposure—principles
and methods. Technical report. Geneva, Switzerland: International Organization for
Standardization, https://www.iso.org/standard/54575.html.


        NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods  5th Edition  Chapter SG      August 2022       Page SG-36 of SG-42
                      Surface Sampling Guidance, Considerations, and Methods in Occupational Hygiene



ISO [2016]. ISO 7503 Measurement of radioactivity—measurement and evaluation of surface
contamination, Parts 1–3. Geneva, Switzerland: International Organization for Standardization.

Kerr K [2004]. Sampling for beryllium surface contamination using wet, dry and alcohol wipe
sampling. Thesis. Warrensburg, MO: Central Missouri State University,
https://doi.org/10.2172/837587.

Kiffmeyer TK, Tuerk J, Hahn M, Stuetzer H, Hadtstein C, Heinemann A, Eickmann U [2013].
Application and assessment of a regular environmental monitoring of the antineoplastic drug
contamination level in pharmacies—the MEWIP project. Ann Occup Hyg 57(4):444–455,
https://doi.org/10.1093/annhyg/mes081.

Kimmel TA, Sussman R, Ku R, Ader A [2011]. Developing acceptable surface limits for occupational
exposure to pharmaceutical substances. J ASTM Int 8(8):1–6, https://doi.org/10.1520/JAI103480.

Kominsky J, Millette J [2011]. Evaluation of asbestos in dust on surfaces by micro-vacuum and wipe
sampling. J ASTM Int 8(5):1–8, https://doi.org/10.1520/JAI103477.

Kopp B, Schierl R, Nowak D [2013]. Evaluation of working practices and surface contamination with
antineoplastic drugs in outpatient oncology health care settings. Int Arch Occup Environ Health
86(1):47–55, https://doi.org/10.1007/s00420-012-0742-z.

Lichtenwalner CP [1992]. Evaluation of wipe sampling procedures and elemental surface
contamination. Am Ind Hyg Assoc J 53(10):657–659, https://doi.org/10.1080/15298669291360300.

Logan PW, Ramachandran G, Mulhausen JR, Banerjee S, Hewett P [2011]. Desktop study of
occupational exposure judgments: do education and experience influence accuracy? J Occup Enviro
Hyg 8(12):746–758, https://doi.org/10.1080/15459624.2011.628607.

Makos K [2001]. Hazard identification and exposure assessment related to handling and use of
contaminated collection materials and sacred objects. Collection Forum 17(1–2):90–112.

McArthur B [1992]. Dermal measurement and wipe sampling methods: a review. Appl Occup
Environ Hyg 7(9):599–606, https://doi.org/10.1080/1047322X.1992.10388051.

Millette J, Rook H, Compton S [2011]. Application of ASTM standard practice D6602 in the
investigation of outdoor environmental surface particulate including darkening agents surface and
dermal sampling, West Conshohocken, PA: American Society for Testing and Materials.

Millson M, Eller PM, Ashley K [1994]. Evaluation of wipe sampling materials for lead in surface dust.
Am Ind Hyg Ass J 55(4):339–342, https://doi.org/10.1080/15428119491018989.



        NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods  5th Edition  Chapter SG      August 2022       Page SG-37 of SG-42
                      Surface Sampling Guidance, Considerations, and Methods in Occupational Hygiene



Ness S [1994]. Surface and dermal monitoring for toxic substances. New York: John Wiley & Son.

NIOSH [1995]. Report to congress on workers’ home contamination study conducted under the
Workers’ Family Protection Act (29 U.S.C. 671a). Cincinnati, OH: U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Institute for Occupational
Safety and Health, DHHS Publication No. (NIOSH) 95-123, https://stacks.cdc.gov/view/cdc/6334.

NIOSH [1996]. Standard industries. By Esswein EJ, Boeniger MF, Hall RM, Mead K. Cincinnati, OH:
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,
National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, Health Hazard Evaluation Report (HETA) 94-
0268-2618, https://www.cdc.gov/niosh/hhe/reports/pdfs/1994-0268-2618.pdf.

NIOSH [2003]. Lead in surface wipe samples: Method 9100. In: NIOSH manual of analytical
methods. 4th ed. Schlecht PC, O’Connor PF, eds. Cincinnati, OH: U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Institute for Occupational
Safety and Health, DHHS (NIOSH) Publication No. 2003-154.

NIOSH [2011a]. Methamphetamine and illicit drugs, precursors, and adulterants on wipes by liquid-
liquid extraction: Method 9106. In: NIOSH manual of analytical methods. 5th ed. Ashley K,
O’Connor PF, eds. Cincinnati, OH: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention, National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, DHHS
(NIOSH) Publication No. 2014-151, https://www.cdc.gov/niosh/docs/2014-
151/pdfs/methods/9106.pdf.

NIOSH [2011b]. Methamphetamine and illicit drugs, precursors, and adulterants on wipes by solid
phase extraction: Method 9109. In: NIOSH manual of analytical methods. 5th ed. Ashley K,
O’Connor PF, eds. Cincinnati, OH: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention, National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, DHHS
(NIOSH) Publication No. 2014-151, https://www.cdc.gov/niosh/docs/2014-
151/pdfs/methods/9109.pdf.

NIOSH [2011c]. Methamphetamine on wipes by liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry: Method
9111. In: NIOSH manual of analytical methods. 5th ed. Ashley K, O’Connor PF, eds. Cincinnati, OH:
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,
National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, DHHS (NIOSH) Publication No. 2014-151,
https://www.cdc.gov/niosh/docs/2014-151/pdfs/methods/9111.pdf.

NIOSH [2012]. Emergency response resources: surface sampling procedures for Bacillus anthracis
spores from smooth, non-porous surfaces. Cincinnati, OH: U.S. Department of Health and Human



        NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods  5th Edition  Chapter SG      August 2022       Page SG-38 of SG-42
                      Surface Sampling Guidance, Considerations, and Methods in Occupational Hygiene



Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Institute for Occupational Safety and
Health, https://www.cdc.gov/niosh/topics/emres/surface-sampling-bacillus-anthracis.html.

NIOSH [2015]. Anthrax surface sampling: how to sample with macrofoam swab on nonporous
surfaces. Video. Cincinnati, OH: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention, National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health,
https://www.cdc.gov/niosh/topics/anthrax/training.html.

NIOSH [2016]. Factors affecting aerosol sampling. In: NIOSH manual of analytical methods. 5th ed.
Ashley K, O’Connor PF, eds. Cincinnati, OH: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services,
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health,
DHHS (NIOSH) Publication No. 2014-151, https://www.cdc.gov/niosh/docs/2014-
151/pdfs/chapters/chapter-ae.pdf.

NIOSH [2022]. NIOSH manual of analytical methods. 5th ed. Andrews R, O’Connor PF, eds.
Cincinnati, OH: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, DHHS (NIOSH) Publication No.
2014-151, http://www.cdc.gov/niosh/nmam.

Nygren O [2006]. Wipe sampling as a tool for monitoring aerosol deposition in workplaces. J
Environ Monit 8(1):49–52, https://doi.org/10.1039/b511509b.

Nygren O, Lindahl R [2011]. Development of a method for screening spill and leakage of antibiotics
on surfaces based on wipe sampling and HPLC-MS/MS analysis surface. J ASTM Int 8(6):1–20,
https://doi.org/10.1520/JAI103544.

OMB [2016]. OMB Circular No. A-119: federal participation in the development and use of
voluntary consensus standards and conformity assessment activities, final revision. Washington, DC:
The White House, Office of Management and Budget,
https://www.nist.gov/system/files/revised_circular_a-119_as_of_01-22-2016.pdf.

OSHA [1993]. OSHA Instruction CPL 2-2.58. Lead exposure in construction. Interim final rule. 29
CFR 1926.62: Inspection and compliance procedures, 29 CFR 1926.62, Lead Exposure In
Construction; Interim Final Rule--Inspection and Compliance Procedures (osha.gov).

OSHA [2000]. Evaluation guidelines for surface sampling methods, OSHA Salt Lake Technical
Center. Salt Lake City, UT: U.S. Department of Labor, Occupational Safety and Health
Administration, https://www.osha.gov/sites/default/files/methods/surfacesampling.pdf.




        NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods  5th Edition  Chapter SG      August 2022       Page SG-39 of SG-42
                      Surface Sampling Guidance, Considerations, and Methods in Occupational Hygiene



OSHA [2001]. Method W4001 Hexavalent chromium (surface sampling method). OSHA Salt Lake
Technical Center. Salt Lake City, UT: U.S. Department of Labor, Occupational Safety and Health
Administration, https://www.osha.gov/sites/default/files/methods/t-w4001-fv-02-0104-m.pdf.

OSHA [2003a]. Clarification of "as free as practicable" and lead contamination under 29 CFR
1926.62. Washington, DC: U.S. Department of Labor, Occupational Safety and Health
Administration, Clarification of "as free as practicable" and lead contamination under 29 CFR
1926.62 (osha.gov).

OSHA [2003b]. Sampling and analytical methods manual. Washington, DC: U.S. Department of
Labor, Occupational Safety and Health Administration,
https://www.osha.gov/chemicaldata/sampling-analytical-methods.

OSHA [2014]. Surface contaminants, skin exposure, biological monitoring and other analyses. In:
OSHA Technical Manual (OTM), Section II: Chapter 2. Washington, DC: U.S. Department of Labor,
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, https://www.osha.gov/otm/section-2-health-
hazards/chapter-2.

OSHA [2020]. 1910 Subpart Z Toxic and hazardous substances. Washington, DC: U.S. Department
of Labor, Occupational Safety and Health Administration, https://www.osha.gov/laws-
regs/regulations/standardnumber/1910/1910SubpartZ.

Piepel GF, Matzke BD, Sego LH, Amidan BG [2013]. Calculating confidence, uncertainty, and
numbers of samples when using statistical sampling approaches to characterize and clear
contaminated areas. Washington, DC: U.S. Department of Energy, Pacific Northwest National
Laboratory Richland, Report No. PNNL-22395,
https://www.pnnl.gov/main/publications/external/technical_reports/PNNL-22395.pdf.

Pretty JR, Connor TH, Spasojevic I, Kurtz KS, McLaurin JL, B'Hymer C, Debord DG [2012].
Sampling and mass spectrometric analytical methods for five antineoplastic drugs in the healthcare
environment. J Oncol Pharm Pract 18(1):23–36, https://doi.org/10.1177%2F1078155210389215.

Roberts JW, Budd WT, Ruby MG, Bond AE, Lewis RG, Wiener RW, Camann DE [1991].
Development and field testing of a high volume sampler for pesticides and toxics in dust. J Expo
Anal Environ Epidemiol 1(2):143–155.

Rondeau GL [2009]. Surface sampling: successful surface samping for Beryllium. In: Beryllium:
environmental analysis and monitoring. Brisson MJ, Ekechukwu A, eds. Cambridge, UK: Royal
Society of Chemistry.




        NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods  5th Edition  Chapter SG      August 2022       Page SG-40 of SG-42
                      Surface Sampling Guidance, Considerations, and Methods in Occupational Hygiene



Schierl R, Böhlandt A, Nowak D [2009]. Guidance values for surface monitoring of antineoplastic
drugs in German pharmacies. Ann Occup Hyg 53(7):703–711,
https://doi.org/10.1093/annhyg/mep050.

Schneider T, Vermeulen R, Brouwer DH, Cherrie JW, Kromhout H, Fogh CL [1999]. Conceptual
model for assessment of dermal exposure. Occup Environ Med 56(11):765–773,
https://doi.org/10.1136/oem.56.11.765.

Sego LH, Bennett J, Anderson KK, Gillen M, Matzke B, Wilson J, Sieber K, Pulsipher B, Shulman S
[2007]. An environmental sampling model for combining judgmental and randomly placed samples.
Washington, DC: U.S. Department of Energy, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory Richland,
Report No. PNNL 16636,
https://www.pnnl.gov/main/publications/external/technical_reports/PNNL-16636.pdf.

Seiler FA, Davis HT, Kominsky JR, Ronan RJ, Kowka CD [1987]. Use of risk assessment methods in
the certification of decontaminated buildings. Risk Anal 7(4):487–495,
https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1539-6924.1987.tb00485.x.

Semple S, Cherrie JW [2003]. Dermal exposure assessment. In: Exposure assessment in occupational
and environmental epidemiology. Nieuwenhuijsen MJ, ed. Oxford Scholarship Online,
https://doi.org/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780198528616.001.0001.

Sirois PJ [2001]. The analysis of museum objects for the presence of arsenic and mercury: non-
destructive analysis and sample analysis. Collection Forum 16(1–2):65–75.

Smith JP, Sammons DL, Robertson SA, Pretty JR, DeBord DG, Connor TH, Snawder JE [2016].
Detection and measurement of surface contamination by multiple antineoplastic drugs using
multiplex bead assay. J Oncol Pharm Pract 22(1):60–67, https://doi.org/10.1177/1078155214554407.

Snawder J, Striley C, Esswein E, Hessel J, Sammons D, Robertson S, Johnson B, Mackenzie B, Smith
J, Walker C [2011]. Use of direct reading surface sampling methods for site characterization and
remediation of methamphetamine contaminated properties. J ASTM Int 8(6):1–11,
https://www.astm.org/jai103481.html.

Svendsen E, Thorne P, O'Shaughnessy P, Zimmerman D, Reynolds S [2006]. House dust collection
efficiency of the high volume small surface sampler on worn carpets. J Occup Enviro Hyg 3(6):334–
341, https://doi.org/10.1080/15459620600700651.

Väänänen V, Hämeilä M, Kalliokoski P, Nykyri E, Heikkilä P [2005]. Dermal exposure to polycyclic
aromatic hydrocarbons among road pavers. Ann Occup Hyg 49(2):167–178,
https://doi.org/10.1093/annhyg/meh094.


        NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods  5th Edition  Chapter SG      August 2022       Page SG-41 of SG-42
                       Surface Sampling Guidance, Considerations, and Methods in Occupational Hygiene



van Wendel de Joode B, Vermeulen R, van Hemmen JJ, Fransman W, Kromhout H [2005]. Accuracy
of a semiquantitative method for dermal exposure assessment (DREAM). Occup Environ Med
62(9):623–632, https://doi.org/10.1136/oem.2004.018564.

Venables DS, Schmuttenmaer CA [2000]. Spectroscopy and dynamics of mixtures of water with
acetone, acetonitrile, and methanol. J Chem Phys 113(24):11222–11236,
https://doi.org/10.1063/1.1328072.

Wheeler JP, Stancliffe JD [1998]. Comparison of methods for monitoring solid particulate surface
contamination in the workplace. Ann Occup Hyg 42(7):477–488.

Willison SA [2012]. Wipe selection for the analysis of surface materials containing chemical warfare
agent nitrogen mustard degradation products by ultra-high pressure liquid chromatography–tandem
mass spectrometry. J Chromatogr A 1270:72–79, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chroma.2012.11.013.

Willison SA [2015]. Investigation of the persistence of nerve agent degradation analytes on surfaces
through wipe sampling and detection with ultrahigh performance liquid chromatography-tandem
mass spectrometry. Anal Chem 87(2):1034–1041, https://doi.org/10.1021/ac503777z.




         NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods  5th Edition  Chapter SG      August 2022       Page SG-42 of SG-42
